Docs: Restructure data warehouse docs to match best practices (#12570)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/data-warehouse/insights.mdx

---
title: Visualizing data warehouse data with insights
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
  free: full
  selfServe: full
  enterprise: full
---

After [linking your source](/docs/cdp/sources), you can use its data in a [trend](/docs/product-analytics/trends) insight like you would event or person data. 

> 

Reviewer: I’d add a small callout about SQL visualizations to clarify that there are multiple ways to visualize the data. 

It’s easy to get confused imo, since you can build charts either through product insights or the SQL editor. Both have different capabilities too. 

```suggestion
> You can also create graphs and visualizations directly [with the SQL editor](/docs/data-warehouse/query#sql-visualizations).
```

To do this, create a [new insight](https://us.posthog.com/insights/new), click the series, go to the **Data warehouse tables** tab, hover over the table you want, and click **Select**.

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/trend_light_9b29b1c254.png" 
  imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/trend_dark_77178b53cb.png"
  alt="Selecting a data warehouse table in a trend" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

> The main difference from events is that you must identify 3 fields from the data warehouse data to visualize it:
> 
> - ID: A field that corresponds to the ID of the element. 
> - Distinct ID: A field that corresponds to an ID representing the user associated with the element. If none, can match ID.
> - Timestamp: A timestamp field representing when the element was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create insights with data warehouse data, you must identify 3 fields:

- **ID**: A field that corresponds to the ID of the element. 
- **Distinct ID**: A field that corresponds to an ID representing the user associated with the element. If none, can match ID.
- **Timestamp**: A timestamp field representing when the element was created.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main difference from events is that you must identify 3 fields from the data warehouse data to visualize it:

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| ID | A field that corresponds to the ID of the element. |
| Distinct ID | A field that corresponds to an ID representing the user associated with the element. If none, can match ID. |
| Timestamp | A timestamp field representing when the element was created. |
```

Maybe it looks good as a table with the description all lined up and what not
